Improving slots documentation (#23355)
microsoft/fluentui: apps/public-docsite-v9/src/Concepts/Slots/Slots.stories.mdx

You can think of component slots like a template where the dotted line parts can be cut out and replaced.
For example, the `Input` component has `contentBefore` and `contentAfter` slots.

<SlotSketch />

### When to use slots

Use a component's slots when you want to

- set the content of a component part
- customize the style of a component part (via `className` prop)
- customize the props passed to a component part
- subscribe to event handlers of a component part
- change the element type of a component part (via `as` prop)
- completely replace existing content of a slot

Later in this topic, you will find examples covering each of these scenarios.

### When to not use slots

- If you are trying to change the visual appearance every instance of a component, prefer to customize the theme.
  Fluent UI React components leverage theme design tokens to render consistently.
  For example, if you want to have borders to be a specific color on `:hover`,
  you can create a theme that overrides `colorNeutralStroke1Hover`.

- If you need to slightly adjust the display of a specific component instance, prefer to apply a custom style.

>   For example, if you want to make a particular component have a thicker border.

Reviewer: The sentence end here made me do a double take -- I think I'd switch out the period at the end of this line to a comma.

Reviewer 2: added a change suggestion below

>   For example, if you want to make a particular component have a thicker border.
>   You create the style using `makeStyles` and/or `mergeClasses` and then apply it to the component using `className`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For example, if you want to make a particular component have a thicker border, 
  you create the style using `makeStyles` and/or `mergeClasses` and then apply it to the component using `className`.
```

>   See the Styling Components topic for more information.

Author: We need to scrub through all the docs and add links.  Hopefully non-fragile ones.

- If you want to change how a component behaves, make deep style customizations,
  replace non-slot parts, or wrap a component with different props, then consider using the hooks API.

>   The hooks API gives you complete control to recompose a component but is more complex than using slots.

Author: I want to avoid promising better documentation :) updated to mention layout and style changes.

>   The hooks API gives you complete control to recompose a component but is more complex than using slots.

Author: I do mention that later when _unstable is shown.

For example, `Accordion` is a hierarchy of `AccordionItem` elements.

```tsx
<Accordion>
  <AccordionItem value="1">
    <AccordionHeader>Accordion Header 1</AccordionHeader>
    <AccordionPanel>
      <div>Accordion Panel 1</div>
    </AccordionPanel>
  </AccordionItem>
  <AccordionItem value="2">
    <AccordionHeader>Accordion Header 2</AccordionHeader>
    <AccordionPanel>
      <div>Accordion Panel 2</div>
    </AccordionPanel>
  </AccordionItem>
  <AccordionItem value="3">
    <AccordionHeader>Accordion Header 3</AccordionHeader>
    <AccordionPanel>
      <div>Accordion Panel 3</div>
    </AccordionPanel>
  </AccordionItem>
</Accordion>
```

## Usage examples

### Passing content

You can pass a primitive value to slots.
The `Input` component's `contentBefore` and `contentAfter` slots can be passed strings.

```tsx
<Input contentBefore="$" value="10" contentAfter=".00" />
```

You can pass JSX elements to slots. For example, the `Button` component can be passed an `img` or an `CalendarRegular24` icon.

```tsx
<>
  <Button icon={<img src='site-icon.png' alt='branded site icon' /> }
  <Button icon={<CalendarRegular24 />} />
</>
```

### Passing props

> When a slot renders an element by default, you can pass props to it.

Author: This sentence used to say component, but Shift suggested that element and component are synonymous.  I like the suggestion and will tweak it to say React component.

You can pass the `className` prop to customize the style of a slot.
The `Avatar` badge slot supports a `className`, allowing the badge style to be customized.

```tsx
const useStyles = makeStyles({
  badge: { color: tokens.colorBrandStroke1 },
});

const BusyBrandAvatar = () => {
  const styles = useStyles();
  return <Avatar name="IT probably" badge={{ status: 'busy', className: styles.badge }} />;
};
```

You can pass the `as` prop to change the element type of a slot.
Note that you must choose from one of the available element types the slot supports.

```tsx
<AccordionHeader as="h1">Accordion Header as h1</AccordionHeader>
```

### Replacing the entire slot

When you pass content or props to a slot,
the component renders the content within a component or element based on the slot type.
If you need to replace the slot's entire content, including the containing element,
pass a render function as the children.

This is an escape hatch in the slots API, so prefer the other techniques whenever possible.

By passing `renderBigLetterIcon` as the `children`, the `span` that normally contains the icon is replaced with an `h1`.

```tsx
const renderBigLetterIcon (Component, props) => {

>   return <h1>B<h1>;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return <b>B</b>;
```

};

> <Button icon={{ children: renderBigLetterIcon }}>Bold</Button>;

Reviewer 2: The result here is BBold. I think in the past you had 'old' on 158.  Example is also a bit odd because h1 is block level which would produce
B
Bold

};

type SlotRenderFunction<Props> = (
  Component: React.ElementType<Props>,
  props: Omit<Props, 'children' | 'as'>,
) => React.ReactNode;
```

### Defining slots in component props

In the Fluent UI React composition architecture, components define their props using `ComponentProps<Slot>`
and state for rendering using `ComponentState<Slot>`.

For example, Spinner defines optional spinner and label slots.

```tsx
type SpinnerSlots = {
  root: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
  spinner?: Slot<'span'>;
  label?: Slot<typeof Label>;
};
```

#### Optional slots

Like any property, slots can be made optional by using the trailing `?`.
The component developer can decide if default content is rendered when a slot is `undefined` or
if nothing is rendered.

#### NonNullable slots

When a slot is defined in the props of a component, it can be set to null to prevent the slot from being rendered.
In cases where components need to require a slot to always be rendered,
it can be wrapped in `NonNullable<T>`.

For example, in `RadioButton` the indicator must always be rendered.

```ts
indicator: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
```

Non-nullable and optional/required slots are independent from one another.

> A slot can be defined with as optional or required and nullable or non-nullable.

Reviewer 3: These 2 are great sections! I've often found that partners struggle a lot with the difference between these two. Thanks for making it so clear!

#### The special root slot

Every component has a `root` slot.
You can think of the root slot as
the element the component renders that contains all component's rendered content.

The root slot

> - defines the type of element that will be rendered

Author: Rewrote this section to avoid implying that the root slot has special type defining capability.  Good catch.

- always gets `className` and `style` properties

> - get the properties passed to the component

Author: Add primary slot documentation.  What do you think?

> - get the properties passed to the component

Reviewer 3: _nit:_

```suggestion
- gets the properties passed to the component
```

  ref: React.Ref<HTMLButtonElement | HTMLAnchorElement>,
): ButtonState
```

Hooks like `useButton` calculate state from props. Typically, this involves filling in default values, adding event handlers,
and define the default element types for each slot.

- `useButtonStyles` takes in and mutates `ButtonState` adding classNames to each slot.

```ts
const useButtonStyles_unstable = (state: ButtonState)
```

Hooks like `useButtonStyles` create classes and conditionally apply them based on the input state. Classes are typically created and applied with `makeStyles` and `mergeClasses`.
For instance, if a component is disabled then disabled styles are added.

- `renderButton` takes in `ButtonState` and renders content.

```tsx
const renderButton_unstable = (state: ButtonState) => {
  const { slots, slotProps } = getSlots<ButtonSlots>(state);
  const { iconOnly, iconPosition } = state;

  return (
    <slots.root {...slotProps.root}>
      {iconPosition !== 'after' && slots.icon && <slots.icon {...slotProps.icon} />}
      {!iconOnly && state.root.children}
      {iconPosition === 'after' && slots.icon && <slots.icon {...slotProps.icon} />}
    </slots.root>
  );
};
```

> The `getSlots` method splits up the state to return the slot elements to render and the props to apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getSlots` method splits up the state to return the slot elements to render and the props to apply to each slot.
```

small suggestion that was slightly clearer in my brain -- up to you whether you think it's better :)

> This makes writing render methods straightforward and mostly boilerplate as most of the work was done in the hooks.

Reviewer 3: I'd add a point about separating concerns and how this allows us to have our render functions really reflect the tree that we want to be rendering. Maybe something along the lines of:

```suggestion
This makes writing render methods straightforward and mostly boilerplate as most of the work was done in the hooks.
This also effectively achieves a separation of concerns where the only thing that our render methods care about and reflect is the structure that we are eventually rendering in the tree.
```

The component's render method can conditionally render slots.

## Wrap up

- Slots are a great way to replace specific parts of a component.
  There may be other extensibility mechanisms like theming, custom styles, or the hooks API
  to consider when slots isn't the best choice.
- The slots API provides a powerful extensibility mechanism with a minimal surface area.
  While the types are complex, they guide the caller with strong type safety.

> - The slots API supports the hooks API by letting components create addressable locations for props and class styles.

Reviewer 3: _nit:_ I'd imply a two-way relationship here

```suggestion
- The slots API supports and is bolstered by the hooks API by letting components create addressable locations for props and class styles.
```

```tsx
type SpinnerSlots = {
  root: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
  spinner?: Slot<'span'>;
  label?: Slot<typeof Label>;
};
```

#### Optional slots

Like any property, slots can be made optional by using the trailing `?`.
The component developer can decide if default content is rendered when a slot is `undefined` or
if nothing is rendered.

#### NonNullable slots

When a slot is defined in the props of a component, it can be set to null to prevent the slot from being rendered.
In cases where components need to require a slot to always be rendered,
it can be wrapped in `NonNullable<T>`.

For example, in `RadioButton` the indicator must always be rendered.

```ts
indicator: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
```

Non-nullable and optional/required slots are independent from one another.
A slot can be defined with as optional or required and nullable or non-nullable.

#### The special root slot

Every component has a `root` slot.
The root slot represents the top-level element the component renders.

Properties passed to the component are generally applied to the root slot.
Some components logically wrap an intrisic element and need to provide other elements around that intrinsic element.

> In this case, the component will properties to the slot for the intrinsic element.

Reviewer 3: _nit:_ Missing word

```suggestion
In this case, the component will pass properties to the slot for the intrinsic element.
```

import { Meta, Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import { SlotSketch } from './SlotSketch.stories';

<Meta title="Concepts/Developer/Customizing Components with Slots" />

## Customizing Components with Slots

> Fluent UI React components have parts that are designed to be replaced.

Reviewer 2: slots are for more than just replacement, right? 
```suggestion
Fluent UI React components have parts that are designed to be modified or replaced.
```

> These are called slots.

Reviewer 2: Does this render as a new line in our docs? The markdown preview shows it as just inline text.

> Slots provide a more flexible approach over render callbacks used in previous versions.
> Fluent UI slots are conceptually similar to slots in other component libraries and frameworks,

Reviewer 2: Sentences feel short and staccato. These two can probably go together.

```suggestion
Slots provide a more flexible approach over render callbacks used in previous versions of Fluent UI and are conceptually similar to slots in other component libraries and frameworks,
```

> but there are some differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with a few differences.
```

- Each slot is exposed as a top-level prop of the same name.
- Some slots have default content and others are empty by default.
- Slots may target different types of elements or components to restrict the type of content.
- You can fill a slot with a primitive value, JSX/TSX, props objects, or a render function.

You can think of component slots like a template where the dotted line parts can be cut out and replaced.
For example, the `Input` component has `contentBefore` and `contentAfter` slots.

<SlotSketch />

### When to use slots

Use a component's slots when you want to

> - Setting the content of component part

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set the content of component part
```

- customize the style of a component part (via `className`)
- customize the props passed to a component part
- subscribe to event handlers of a component part

> - change the element type of a component part (via `as`)

Reviewer 2: future option, have `as` link to a demo of using the as prop

Reviewer 2: oh, now I see the options below...suggestion maybe to link down to it

- completely replace existing content of a slot

Later in this topic, you will find examples covering each of these scenarios.

### When to not to use slots

> - If you need to slightly adjust the display of components across you application, prefer to customize the theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are trying to change the visual appearance every instance of a component, start by trying to modify the theme.
```

  Fluent UI React components leverage theme design tokens to render consistently.
  For example, if you want to have borders to be a specific color on `:hover`, you can create a theme that sets `colorNeutralStroke1Hover`.

- If you need to slightly adjust the display of a specific component instance, prefer to apply a custom style.
  For example, if you want to make a particular component have a thicker border.
  You create the style using `makeStyles` and/or `mergeClasses` and then apply it to the component using `className`.

- If you want to change how a component behaves, make deep style customizations,
  replace non-slot parts, or wrap a component with different props, then consider using the hooks API.
  The hooks API gives you complete control to recompose a component but is more complex than using slots.

### Conditional Rendering

> Some components conditionally render slots.

Reviewer 2: is there any way for a user to know which slots conditionally render?

> For example, Avatar has `label` slot that only renders when there is no image provided.

Reviewer 2: Is this a gotcha for users to look out for? i.e. "So if you provide a label and an image, don't expect the label to be rendered"

It also has an `icon` slot that only renders when there is neither an image nor a name provided.

> ### What about the children?

Reviewer 2: Funny, but probably contextual :)

```suggestion
### What about children?
```

The primary content within a component is defined by adding children.

> If you like, you can think of children as the primary, unnamed slot.

Reviewer 2: primary slot is a used term. Default, main, standard.....I think I like default
```suggestion
If you like, you can think of children as a default, unnamed slot, that only takes JSX or a render function. Note that not all components support children.
```

Author: @micahgodbolt I'm concerned about confusion between a default slot and default slot content.

```tsx
<Input contentBefore="$" value="10" contentAfter=".00" />
```

You can pass HTML values to slots.
The `Button` component can be passed an `img`.

```tsx
<Button icon={<img src='site-icon.png' alt='branded site icon' /> }
```

You can pass JSX/TSX to slots.
The `Button` component can be passed an `CalendarRegular24` icon.

```tsx
<Button icon={<CalendarRegular24 />}
```

### Passing props

When a slot renders a component or element by default, you can pass props to it.

The `Avatar` component has a `badge` slot that renders a `PresenceBadge`.
This allows you pass `PresenceBadge` props.

```tsx
<Avatar name="Support" badge={{ status: 'available', 'aria-label': 'available' }} />
```

You can pass the `className` prop to customize the style of a slot.
The `Avatar` badge slot supports a `className`, allowing the badge style to be customized.

```tsx
const useStyles = makeStyles({
  badge: { color: tokens.colorBrandStroke1 },
});

const BusyBrandAvatar = () => {
  const styles = useStyles();
  return <Avatar name="IT probably" badge={{ status: 'busy', className: styles.badge }} />;
};
```

You can pass the `as` prop to change the element type of a slot.

> Note that you must choose from one of the available element types the slot provides.

Reviewer 2: not sure what 'provides' means here. Its done through typing right?

```suggestion
Note that you must choose from one of the available element types the slot supports.
```

```tsx
<AccordionHeader as="h1">Accordion Header as h1</AccordionHeader>
```

### Replacing the entire slot

When you pass content or props to a slot,
the component renders the content within a component or element based on the slot type.
Through a render function you can replace the entire slots content including the containing element.

This is an escape hatch in the slots API, so prefer the other techniques whenever possible.

> By passing a render function as the `children`, the `span` that normally contains the icon is replaces with an `h1`.

Reviewer 2: is passing the render function to children the only way for this replacement approach to work? If so, we might include that in line 163. "Through a render function in the slots children prop".

Author: I'll reword this.

```tsx
const renderBigLetterIcon () => {
  return <h1>B<h1>;
};

<Button icon={{ children: renderBigLetterIcon }}>utton</Button>;
```

## The Slot type

In `@fluentui/react-utilities`, `compose/types.ts` defines the types for the slots API.

The types are pretty dense and can be difficult to unwind,
but they provide a lot of capability with strong type-safety.
This will start with some oversimplification and then add more type explanation as we go.

> The `compose/types.ts` file contains more detailed comments.

Reviewer 2: we don't need to apologize.

type Slot<Type, AlternateAs> =
      ...
      WithSlotShorthandValue<
          Type extends keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements
            ? { as?: Type } & WithSlotRenderFunction<IntrisicElementProps<Type>>
            : Type extends React.ComponentType<infer Props>
            ? WithSlotRenderFunction<Props>
            : Type
        >
      ...
```

Following `WithSlotShorthandValue<Props>`, it is defined as the `Props` object
or the `children` of a React child, array of nodes, or portal.

```ts
type WithSlotShorthandValue<Props extends { children?: unknown }> =
  | Props
  | Extract<SlotShorthandValue, Props['children']>;

type SlotShorthandValue = React.ReactChild | React.ReactNodeArray | React.ReactPortal;
```

Following `WithSlotRenderFunction<Props>`, it is defined as the `Props` object and children.
The children can be JSX/TSX or a function that renders JSX/TSX.

```ts
type WithSlotRenderFunction<Props extends { children?: unknown }> = Props & {
  children?: Props['children'] | SlotRenderFunction<Props>;
};

type SlotRenderFunction<Props> = (
  Component: React.ElementType<Props>,
  props: Omit<Props, 'children' | 'as'>,
) => React.ReactNode;
```

## Component slot usage

> ### Defining slots

Reviewer 2: Is this necessarily for using our components? Or more targeted to those trying to create/extend our controls? Feels a bit out of place as most of the docs feel like they are for consumption.

In the Fluent UI React composition architecture, components define their props using `ComponentProps<Slot>`
and state for rendering using `ComponentState<Slot>`.

For example, Button defines an icon slot.

```tsx
type ButtonSlots = {
  root: NonNullable<Slot<ARIAButtonSlotProps>>;
  icon?: Slot<'span'>;
};

type ButtonProps = ComponentProps<ButtonSlots> & {
  ...
};

type ButtonState = ComponentState<ButtonSlots> & {
  ...
};
}
```

### The special root slot

Every component has a `root` slot.
You can think of the root slot as
the element the component renders that contains all component's rendered content.

The root slot

- defines the type of element that will be rendered
- always gets `className` and `style` properties
- get the properties passed to the component

### NonNullable slots

When a slot is defined in the props of a component, it can be set to null to prevent the slot from being rendered.
In cases where components need to require a slot to always be rendered, it can be wrapped in `NonNullable<T>`.

For example, in `RadioButton` the indicator must always be rendered.

```ts
indicator: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
```

### Styling and Rendering with slots

> You can think of each slot as container for props and style that will be rendered as an element.

Reviewer 4: I think it's phrased fine here, my comment was about consistently referring to things. I'm fine with this as-is.

The Fluent UI hooks architecture breaks up component rendering primarily into 3 parts

- use*Component*(): This takes in props and produces state
- use*Component*Styles() - This uses state to define and apply class styles
- render*Component*() - This renders the elements of the component

`Button` follows this pattern:

- `useButton` will take in `ButtonProps` and return `ButtonState`.

```ts

> const useButton_unstable = (

Reviewer 4: What do you think about adding a "NOTE: this architecture is unstable and subject to change" (or something along those lines) to this section?

Author: I think we're going to need documentation on the hooks architecture too so I'd prefer to save it for there.  I'll add a note about unstable though.

  props: ButtonProps,
  ref: React.Ref<HTMLButtonElement | HTMLAnchorElement>,
): ButtonState
```

> Hooks like `useButton` will typically fill in default values, calculate state from props, add event handlers,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hooks like `useButton` calculate state from props. Typically, this involves filling in default values, adding event handlers, 
```

This sentence is broken up to two lines so the next line will need to be changed if you accept this edit.

and define the default element types for each slot.

> - `useButtonStyles` will take in and mutate `ButtonState`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `useButtonStyles` takes in and mutates `ButtonState`
```

> - `useButtonStyles` will take in and mutate `ButtonState`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `useButtonStyles` will take in and mutate `ButtonState` adding classNames to each slot
```

import { Meta, Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import { SlotSketch } from './SlotSketch.stories';

<Meta title="Concepts/Developer/Customizing Components with Slots" />

## Customizing Components with Slots

Fluent UI React components have parts that are designed to be modified or replaced.
These are called slots.
Slots provide a more flexible approach over render callbacks used in previous versions of Fluent UI
and are conceptually similar to slots in other component libraries and frameworks.

- Each slot is exposed as a top-level prop of the same name.
- Some slots have default content and others are empty by default.
- Slots may target different types of elements or components to restrict the type of content.
- You can fill a slot with a primitive value, JSX/TSX, props objects, or a render function.

You can think of component slots like a template where the dotted line parts can be cut out and replaced.
For example, the `Input` component has `contentBefore` and `contentAfter` slots.

<SlotSketch />

### When to use slots

Use a component's slots when you want to

> - set the content of component part

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- set the content of a component part
```

- customize the style of a component part (via `className`)
- customize the props passed to a component part
- subscribe to event handlers of a component part
- change the element type of a component part (via `as`)
- completely replace existing content of a slot

Later in this topic, you will find examples covering each of these scenarios.

> ### When to not to use slots

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### When to not use slots
```

- If you are trying to change the visual appearance every instance of a component, prefer to customize the theme.
  Fluent UI React components leverage theme design tokens to render consistently.

>   For example, if you want to have borders to be a specific color on `:hover`, you can create a theme that sets `colorNeutralStroke1Hover`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  For example, if you want to have borders to be a specific color on `:hover`, you can create a theme that overrides `colorNeutralStroke1Hover`.
```

_nit_ In this context it could clearer

- If you need to slightly adjust the display of a specific component instance, prefer to apply a custom style.
  For example, if you want to make a particular component have a thicker border.

>   You create the style using `makeStyles` and/or `mergeClasses` and then apply it to the component using `className`.

Reviewer 6: This paragraph is a bit unclear to me as it's under "When to not use slots".

```tsx
const useClasses = makeStyles({
  // Option A
  root: { [`.${slotClassName}`]: { color: 'red' } },
  // Option B
  slot: { color: 'red' },
});

// Option A
<Component className={classes.root} />

// Option B
<Component slot={{ className: classes.slot }}>
```

Is it a recommendation to use "Option A"?

Author: I'm talking about Option A here.  I'll mention the styling components topic to clarity.

Reviewer 6: I don't think that "Option A" is a recommended approach actually. "Option B" is preferred.

Can we change/remove this to reflect this?

Author: If a developer want to change a button border, they would apply the className to the Button right? (option A).  If they want to customize the icon border, they would apply the className to the slot (option B), which would be using slots by passing the classname prop to the slot.

Reviewer 6: Correct, but please check the snippet: it contains a nested selector in Option A that applies styles a slot.

- If you want to change how a component behaves, make deep style customizations,
  replace non-slot parts, or wrap a component with different props, then consider using the hooks API.
  The hooks API gives you complete control to recompose a component but is more complex than using slots.

### Conditional rendering

Some components conditionally render slots.

For example, Avatar has `label` slot that only renders when there is no image provided.
It also has an `icon` slot that only renders when there is neither an image nor a name provided.

### What about children?

The primary content within a component is defined by adding children.
If you like, you can think of children as an unnamed slot.

Component children allow for building deeper hierarchies using JSX/TSX.
They also allow for greater extension of the types of content.

> For example, Menu is a hierarchy of menu items.

Reviewer 6: I am not sure that `Menu` is a good example for this because there is `MenuTrigger` that behaves absolutely differently 🤔 Can we use a different component there with simpler structure?

Author: I'll use Accordion instead.

        <MenuGroupHeader>Create New Items</MenuGroupHeader>
        <MenuItem>New Project</MenuItem>
        <MenuItem>New Timeline</MenuItem>
      </MenuGroup>
      <MenuDivider />
      <MenuItem disabled>Open File...</MenuItem>
      <MenuItem>Open Folder...</MenuItem>
      <MenuDivider />
      <Menu>
        <MenuTrigger>
          <MenuItem>Zoom</MenuItem>
        </MenuTrigger>
        <MenuPopover>
          <MenuList>
            <MenuItem>Zoom In</MenuItem>
            <MenuItem>Zoom Out</MenuItem>
          </MenuList>
        </MenuPopover>
      </Menu>
    </MenuList>
  </MenuPopover>
</Menu>
```

## Usage examples

### Passing content

You can pass a primitive value to slots.
The `Input` component's `contentBefore` and `contentAfter` slots can be passed strings.

```tsx
<Input contentBefore="$" value="10" contentAfter=".00" />
```

You can pass HTML values to slots.
The `Button` component can be passed an `img`.

```tsx
<Button icon={<img src='site-icon.png' alt='branded site icon' /> }
```

You can pass JSX/TSX to slots.
The `Button` component can be passed an `CalendarRegular24` icon.

```tsx
<Button icon={<CalendarRegular24 />}
```

### Passing props

> When a slot renders a component or element by default, you can pass props to it.

Reviewer 6: - `Component` - is a React component
- `<Component />` - is a JSX element

If a React component will be passed to a slot i.e. `<Button icon={Component} />` it will explode 💣 

Let's be more accurate with terms 🐱 

```suggestion
When a slot renders an element by default, you can pass props to it.
```

```

You can pass the `className` prop to customize the style of a slot.
The `Avatar` badge slot supports a `className`, allowing the badge style to be customized.

```tsx
const useStyles = makeStyles({
  badge: { color: tokens.colorBrandStroke1 },
});

const BusyBrandAvatar = () => {
  const styles = useStyles();
  return <Avatar name="IT probably" badge={{ status: 'busy', className: styles.badge }} />;
};
```

You can pass the `as` prop to change the element type of a slot.
Note that you must choose from one of the available element types the slot supports.

```tsx
<AccordionHeader as="h1">Accordion Header as h1</AccordionHeader>
```

### Replacing the entire slot

When you pass content or props to a slot,
the component renders the content within a component or element based on the slot type.
If you need to replace the slot's entire content, including the containing element,
pass a render function as the children.

This is an escape hatch in the slots API, so prefer the other techniques whenever possible.

By passing `renderBigLetterIcon` as the `children`, the `span` that normally contains the icon is replaced with an `h1`.

```tsx

> const renderBigLetterIcon () => {

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
const renderBigLetterIcon = (Component, props) => {
```

I think that's is reasonable to show input there so people will be aware about it.

  return <h1>B<h1>;
};

> <Button icon={{ children: renderBigLetterIcon }}>utton</Button>;

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
<Button icon={{ children: renderBigLetterIcon }}>Button</Button>;
```

Author: The B in the icon is supposed to complete the word button, but I'll change it up since it looks strange when reading the code.

Reviewer 6: Ouch, I see 🙃

> This explanation of the types starts with some oversimplification then adds more detail.
> For full details, see the `compose/types.ts` file comments.

The `Slot` type allows components to define a slot.

```ts
type Slot<Type, AlternateAs>
```

`Type` defines the default element or component for the slot.
It can be a single intrinsic element type (i.e. an HTML element like 'div') or a React component type.

`AlternateAs` allows the slot to support other kinds of elements through the `as` prop.
It can be a single intrinsic element type, or a union of element types.

Currently, `AlternateAs` only supports intrinsic element types.
This is necessary to ensure components restrict slots where `Type` is a component type.
Substituting other component types has caused deep typing, accessibility, and event handler problems in the past.

For example,

- `Slot<'div'>` means by default the slot will render a `div` element.
- `Slot<typeof Button>` means by default the slot will render a `Button` component.
- `Slot<'span', 'div' | 'pre'>` means that caller can use `as`to change from `span` to `div` or `pre`.

> ### Slot definition

Reviewer 6: IMO this section is currently confusing. I don't know what do you think about it, but I would completely skip it for now.

Author: Feedback from partners reading the slots documentation is that they need a better explanation of the slot types and what they mean when inspecting components.  We should get something documented and then clarify if partners find it confusing rather than not giving them any information.

      ...
      WithSlotShorthandValue<
          Type extends keyof JSX.IntrinsicElements
            ? { as?: Type } & WithSlotRenderFunction<IntrisicElementProps<Type>>
            : Type extends React.ComponentType<infer Props>
            ? WithSlotRenderFunction<Props>
            : Type
        >
      ...
```

Following `WithSlotShorthandValue<Props>`, it is defined as the `Props` object
or the `children` of a React child, array of nodes, or portal.

```ts
type WithSlotShorthandValue<Props extends { children?: unknown }> =
  | Props
  | Extract<SlotShorthandValue, Props['children']>;

type SlotShorthandValue = React.ReactChild | React.ReactNodeArray | React.ReactPortal;
```

Following `WithSlotRenderFunction<Props>`, it is defined as the `Props` object and children.
The children can be JSX/TSX or a function that renders JSX/TSX.

```ts
type WithSlotRenderFunction<Props extends { children?: unknown }> = Props & {
  children?: Props['children'] | SlotRenderFunction<Props>;
};

type SlotRenderFunction<Props> = (
  Component: React.ElementType<Props>,
  props: Omit<Props, 'children' | 'as'>,
) => React.ReactNode;
```

### Defining slots in component props

> In the Fluent UI React composition architecture, components define their props using `ComponentProps<Slot>`

Reviewer 7: Since we're talking about the composition architecture, it would be ideal to have a section explaining how it's possible to override a `slot` default component by using the `state.components.X` mechanism

Author: This is a fuzzy line between the hooks API and slots.  We need to better document the hooks composition model and then the state.components.X information may appear there or here.

and state for rendering using `ComponentState<Slot>`.

For example, Button defines an optional icon slot.

```tsx
type ButtonSlots = {

>   root: NonNullable<Slot<ARIAButtonSlotProps>>;

Reviewer 6: Can we use an another component as an example? We use `ARIAButtonSlotProps` there, but we don't explain anything about it.

Author: Will change to Spinner.

  icon?: Slot<'span'>;
};

type ButtonProps = ComponentProps<ButtonSlots> & {
  ...
};

type ButtonState = ComponentState<ButtonSlots> & {
  ...
};
}
```

#### Optional slots

Like any property, slots can be made optional by using the trailing `?`.

> The component developer can decide if default content is rendered when a slot is undefined or

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The component developer can decide if default content is rendered when a slot is `undefined` or
```

_nit_

if nothing is rendered.

#### NonNullable slots

When a slot is defined in the props of a component, it can be set to null to prevent the slot from being rendered.
In cases where components need to require a slot to always be rendered,
it can be wrapped in `NonNullable<T>`.

For example, in `RadioButton` the indicator must always be rendered.

```ts
indicator: NonNullable<Slot<'div'>>;
```

Non-nullable and optional/required slots are independent from one another.
Each of the following are valid slot definitions.

> - icon: `<Slot<'span'>`
> - icon?: `Slot<'span'>`
> - icon: `NonNullable<Slot<'span'>>`
> - icon?: `NonNullable<Slot<'span'>>`

Reviewer 6: ````suggestion
```tsx
type ComponentProps = {
  // a required slot
  icon: `<Slot<'span'>`
  // a optional slot
  icon?: `Slot<'span'>`
  icon: `NonNullable<Slot<'span'>>`
  icon?: `NonNullable<Slot<'span'>>`
}
```
````

I suggest to turn it into self-descriptive code snippet.

Author: I think the example isn't that useful and will remove it.
